---
created: 2022-03-17T15:51:55 
edited: 
aliases:
  - null
tags: created/topic/2022/03/17, node/topic/term
---
`$=customJS.dv_funcs.mentionedIn(dv)`

#### <s class="topic-title">[[autism spectrum]]</s>

> [!wikipedia] [autism spectrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autism%20spectrum)
> 
> The autism spectrum is an umbrella term covering a range of neurodevelopmental conditions referred to as autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The word spectrum is defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders to cover a wider group of conditions and differences in the type and perceived severity of symptoms, a trend which developed in the 1980s; an alternative term, autism spectrum conditions, has been used by some to avoid perceived negativity associated with the word disorder. Asperger syndrome is included in the term autism spectrum disorder. The 11th International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11), released in January 2021, characterizes ASD with deficits in the ability of an individual to begin and sustain two-way social communication and restricted or repetitive behavior unusual for the individual's age or situation (see Classification). Although linked with early childhood, the symptoms can appear later, frequently associated with increased social interaction. With considerable variation, also dependent on the context, deficits can cause impediments in personal, family, social, educational and occupational situations; those diagnosed with ASD range from the independent and gifted to the very challenged and needy requiring intervention and long-term support. Related to ASD is the broad autism phenotype (BAP), in which individuals have some of the symptoms of ASD, but an insufficient number or intensity of symptoms to justify an ASD diagnosis; BAP is particularly prevalent in close blood relatives of individuals with ASD.Symptoms can be detected before the age of two and experienced practitioners can give a reliable diagnosis by that age. However, a diagnosis may not occur until much older, even well into adulthood. The signs are many and can include: specific or repeated behaviors, enhanced sensitivity to materials, being upset by changes in routine, appearing to show reduced interest in others, avoiding eye-contact and limitations in social situations and with verbal communication. When social interaction becomes more important, some whose condition might have been overlooked suffer social and other exclusion and are more likely to have coexisting mental and physical conditions. Long-term problems include difficulties in daily living such as managing schedules, hypersensitivities (e.g. to foods, noises, fabric textures), initiating and sustaining relationships and maintaining jobs.The causes of autism spectrum conditions remain uncertain. Genetic and neuroscientific studies have identified patterns of risk but with little that is of current practical benefit. Research on twins demonstrates a greater likelihood of heritability of the condition over environmental factors. Studies comparing data from multiple countries also indicate a genetic link. Risk factors can include a family history of ASD, having an older parent, certain genetic conditions, certain prescribed drugs taken during pregnancy and general compromises in perinatal and neonatal health.Diagnosis is based on observation of behavior and development. Many, especially girls and those who have good verbal skills, may have been misdiagnosed with other conditions. The assessment of children involves carers, the child if capable, physicians and a core team of professionals including pediatricians, child psychiatrists, speech-and-language therapists and clinical/educational psychologists. For adults, clinicians identify neurodevelopmental history, behaviors, difficulties in communication, limited interests and problems in education, employment and social relationships. Challenging behavior may be assessed with functional analysis to identify the triggers causing it.Autistic spectrum disorder is considered a lifelong condition with no simple test or cure. Few of the many different treatments have been independently scientifically evaluated. Support efforts include teaching social and behavioral skills, monitoring, factoring-in co-existing conditions, and guidance for the carers, family, educators, and employers. There is no specific medication for ASD; drugs can be prescribed for symptoms such as anxiety but there are significant risks. A study in 2019 found that the management of challenging behaviors was generally of low quality, with little support for long-term usage of psychotropic drugs, and concerns about their inappropriate prescription. Genetic research has improved understanding of molecular pathways in ASD and animal research has pointed to the reversibility of phenotypes but the studies are at an early stage.The reported prevalence of ASD worldwide is variable, affected by access, research, data-collection, assessment tools, record-completeness, and geographical coverage, as well as cultural differences and funding. Most data comes from high-income countries; there is a paucity of data from Africa and South America. A 2019 population study of children in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and France showed means of 1.26%, 0.77%, 3.13%, and (up to) 0.73% in France respectively with ASD. The United States (2016) had a mean of 1.9% (3.0% of boys and 0.7% of girls) and Canada (2018) 1.5% (2.39% of boys and 0.6% of girls); Estimates from Ireland (2018) showed 1.5% had ASD, similar to the United Kingdom, Norway, and Italy but lower than South Korea at 2.64%. Meta-analysis from China (2016) gave a low mean of 0.39%, possibly due to different screening tools. Apparent increases in the prevalence of ASD have been attributed to changes in reporting practices. Males are diagnosed with ASD about four times more often than females. The reasons for this are unclear, with suggestions including a higher testosterone level in utero, different presentation of symptoms in females (leading to misdiagnosis) or simply gender-bias.Advocacy groups have emerged, some as part of the autism rights movement, offering support and challenging healthcare professionals. The groups encompass those for or against drug treatment, biogenetic research, behavioural therapy, educational and societal change or beliefs about envirotoxins. Terms such as neurodiversity and neurotypical have been popularized and sometimes used in medical literature. Critics, including those on the spectrum, have bemoaned the entrenchment of some groups' opinions. In this process, disagreements have been exposed in the interpretation of ASD by experts from different countries, with some regarding diagnostic changes since 2000 as an "American" phenomenon.
>


**See**::
*`$=customJS.dv_funcs.outlinedIn(dv, this)`*

%% DO NOT EDIT BELOW %%

#### Related 

```dataview
LIST FROM [[#]]
WHERE contains(topics, this.file.link)
```
%% DO NOT EDIT ABOVE %%
