Prompt 1: Examine Chiron's journey from childhood to manhood with respect to "masculinity" How is masculinity defined? What are the associated stereotypes? Prejudices? Include film examples

Aaron [[Bopp]] - Ethnographic Film Study -- 2/7/2019

[[Masculinity]] is something that many young men struggle with today. For most of history, men have been at the top of the social, political, and physical food chain. This has created many stereotypes about what masculinity is and the way that men act, but in recent years these notions have started to be questioned. With the rise of [[feminism]], the continuing acceptance of the LGBTQ movement and of [[non-binary]] genders, the male-centric society that has existed for centuries has started to break-down, or at least adapt. Now more than ever it is accepted and even celebrated when a person defies [[gender]] stereotypes. Unfortunately, this is a very recent development. In Barry Jenkin's 2016 film *Moonlight,* he follows the life of black child, Chiron, living in Liberty City, Miami in the mid 1980's. In this film Jenkins addresses many issues relating to masculinity, the stereotypes of masculinity, and how they affect Chiron's upbringing. The movie is divided into three parts that correspond to three stages in Chiron's life. These parts also correspond to Chiron's view towards masculinity.

In part one Chiron's view towards masculinity is one of [[ignorance]]. Chiron doesn't understand what masculinity is and therefore doesn't understand why he is not accepted by his peers. The audience sees many scenes where Chiron is ostracized by groups of his peers. The audience gets the clearest reason for his position from a scene with his mother, Paula. Throughout the film Paula's struggles more and more with drugs. One particular trip she says that the reason Chiron gets beaten up so much is the way he walks. This coupled with a scene where Chiron is dancing much more flamboyantly than anyone else in music class, shows the audience one of the reasons that Chiron is being picked on. According to <u>The Bullied Boy,</u> an article by Paul Horton, masculinism is what leads many young boys to bullying. Masculinism is the belief that a male is supposed to be dominant, and this trait is common in school boys. He says," For boys, then, the question is not whether to take on a typical male sex role, but rather how to position themselves according to the masculine discourses available to them" (Horton, 2018). Chiron has failed to position himself so that he will look normal. The film shows this to the audience through the only other boy the film develops extensively, Chiron's friend Kevin. Kevin is just as small as Chiron but has learned how to fit into the group. Kevin attempts to teach Chiron how to do this, but as the audience will see in part two, it doesn't work.
[[INDEX#Entry Points]]

In part one, Chiron was unaware of the reasons he was being picked on other than that he was small and easy to beat. In part two, he is painfully aware of the things that his peers are doing that he is not. Chiron is now in high school and with high school the aspects of masculinity change, from playing ball and wrestling, to getting girls and doing drugs. Whether it is by his choice or not, Chiron does not actively participate in these kinds of things with his peers, but that does not mean he does not [[desire]] them. Kevin talks to Chiron one day about how he had sex with a girl in the stairwell. Chiron is obviously flustered and possibly jealous, but in a dream sequence the next night Chiron sees Kevin with a girl. This scene shows Chiron's jealousy of Kevin's sexual activity or perhaps his [[desire]] for intimacy. Near the end of part two there is a scene where Kevin and Chiron have an sexually intimate moment on a beach. They have conversation and the audience sees a rare moment of contentment for Chiron. This night is perhaps the beginning of Chiron accepting himself and realizing that he can have value without being traditionally masculine. Unfortunately, over the next few days Chiron's bullying escalates and he retaliates by beating his bully with a chair. He is sent to juvenile detention in Georgia and his life is changed forever.

In part three the lanky, skinny Chiron is now replaced by a muscular, masculine Chiron. Throughout part two it seems that Chiron has become everything he wasn't in part two. He is now a drug dealer, seems interested in [[women]], and seems accepted by the people around him as an equal or even a role-model. However, when he meets back up with Kevin (whom he has not seen in ten years), it is revealed that it is all a scam. Chiron has learned to play the act of masculinity in order to survive in a world that would not accept his true [[self]]. Chiron reveals to Kevin that he has not been with another person, man or [[women]], since their night on the beach. This is an example of Dysfunction Strain as described in "I Always Felt I had to Prove My Manhood." Dysfunction Strain is when a [[Queer|homosexual]] man feels that he must hyper-masculine in order to cover up his homosexuality (Fields, 2015). Chiron had created this personality to protect himself from the kind of abuse he suffered in his childhood, but when he is around someone who accepts him he can finally be free from the strain of living a lie.

*Moonlight* is an excellent study into masculinity and its effects on the growth of person. *Moonlight* examines masculinity from two sides: the masculine, and the not. Chiron's bullies show us the kind of destructive nature that masculinity can bring to young children, and Chiron himself shows the mental strain it can put on a young adult. In this film Chiron goes from being to ignorant of masculinity, to desiring masculinity, to putting on the show of masculinity. The audience is left unsure of where Chiron's life will lead him, but it's not hard to believe that it will be better.

Works Cited

Errol Lamont Fields, Laura M. Bogart, Katherine C. Smith, David J. Malebranche, Jonathan Ellen, Mark A. Schuster. (2015) "I Always Felt I Had to Prove My Manhood": Homosexuality, Masculinity, [[Gender]] Role Strain, and HIV Risk Among Young Black Men Who Have Sex With Men." Am J Public Health. 2015 Jan; 105(1): 122--131. DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301866

Paul Horton (2018) "The bullied boy: masculinity, embodiment, and the gendered social-ecology of [[Vietnam|Vietnamese]] school bullying," [[Gender]] and [[Education]], DOI: 10.1080/09540253.2018.1458076
