Under Milkwood Play Critique

Summary: Under Milkwood is a play about a small Scottish town called Llareghub. The play has little plot and is instead a collection of slice of life scenes that bring the town to life. Despite the lack of major plot, the characters are very real and very deep, and you can understand them with just a few lines of dialogue.

Intended [[purpose]]: I believe the [[purpose]] of this play was immerse its audience in the day of a town. The play begins in the morning and ends at night. By the end of a play you have a very good idea of the characters in the town and how the interact with each other. You get snippets of characters at different points in their day. You see Willy Nilly in the morning delivering mail, in the afternoon gossiping with his and at the end drinking at the bar. The kind of audience that would enjoy this play skews older, as they have more experiences to relate to the people in the town. An older couple who has had spats would get more out of the Pugh and Beynon scenes than one that hasn't.

Opinion: I think that the [[Acting]] in this play was top notch (surprise, surprise)

Defense: I like this play quite a bit, and as an actor got a larger chance to get to know these characters than the audience. Every aspect was important to bringing the play to life, but as an adaptation of a radio play, the [[Acting]] was of primary importance to making the play enjoyable. Llareghub has incredibly rich characters and throughout the process we would continue to find new ins and outs of our characters and new plot details. The primary [[purpose]] of our [[Acting]] was to get the essence of our real down to earth characters across as quickly as possible, because in just a few lines you would be moving on to a new scene. This was made easier by the script, and even in the very first rehearsals we started to understand each other's characters. Especially the opening monologues from Polly Garter and Myfanwy Price reveal their characters very well.

Theme: The theme of this play is that life is simple and complicated at the same time. A person's daily routine may seem mundane and boring, but there is a lot going in the background.

Defense: The play is constantly giving us access to information that a normal onlooker would not get. Whether it be the inner machinations of Mr. Pugh's mind or the details of how Gomer Owen kissed Bessie Bighead, this play is giving us information a regular one would not. The townspeople's routines are normal, and they go about them like anyone would, but there is magic happening, and that's what the narrator reveals to us.
