**<u>Companion Piece Write-Up (10 points)</u>**

**Instructions:** Access the assigned companion piece of the week (or find your own companion piece) and listen to, read, or watch the entire piece. Then, respond to all of the items. Your responses to each should be at least 0.5 double-spaced pages in size 12 font. To help, I grade 0.5 pages as 11 lines of content. If you have less than 11 lines, you will lose points for not writing enough.

**<u>Section 1 (Summary):</u>** Summarize the piece. Be sure to explain what the piece was about in enough detail that it is clear that you watched/read/listened to the entire piece. Also, be sure to highlight aspects of the piece that show its relevance to race and/or [[gender]].

==Tone shared a story about his childhood where he was pushed to steal from his teacher due to inequalities that his teacher was placing on his students. His teacher implemented a reward system of fake currency and a shop that accepted that currency. This currency was earned through good behavior and participation in her class and could be used to buy various things from her shop. This system fostered a very interesting market dynamic in her students, but it had an unintended side effect. Some of her students were in more classes with her than others, and thus had a more time to earn money. This meant that they were privileged compared to the other students, and there was nothing that Tone was able to do to correct this error, so he stole from the bank. He was then punished for this, despite the fact that he tried to correct the inequality in the correct way first.==

**<u>Section 2 (Reading Connection):</u>** Discuss at least one **<u>reading from this week</u>** that relates to the piece. Be sure to explain which reading you are discussing, what the reading said about the topic, and how the reading is connected to the piece.

The dynamics of Tone's childhood classroom scarily mirror the system of privilege and oppression in society today. Those who were in multiple classes were able to get access to resources more easily than those in less classes, even if they were working the exact same amount. Even when Tone tried to correct this inequality by working with the teacher and going through the correct channels, his voice was not heard, and the inequality continued until he broke the rules. It was only through his anger and drastic action that his plight was truly heard and thankfully addressed, but even then those that had profited off of his desperation were left unpunished. This is a very simple representation of some of the system that keep systemic [[racism]] in place today. "[[7 Ways We Know Systemic Racism Is Real]]" establishes many of these inequalities, such as how white families hold 90% of the wealth, [[black people]] are more likely to be convicted, sentenced and receive longer sentences, and how these combine to lead to [[black people]] making up a disproportionate percentage of the [[prison]] population.

**<u>Section 3 (Personal Reflection):</u>** Discuss how the piece relates to your own life experiences. Consider how the stories or information presented is similar to, or different from, what you've experienced. If the piece focuses on an identity very different from your own, you can think about how not having that identity has led to a different life. You can also discuss memories that the piece made you think of. You should <u>not</u> give your opinion or evaluation of the piece, and you should <u>not</u> just talk about how it made you feel (e.g. "this topic makes me sad").

I can't really relate this piece to my life except in contrast, but I do find it interesting how the system of society are taught and pushed onto us at an early age. I was obsessed with Monopoly as a child, and I loved being able to collect and upgrade properties to slowly push people out of the game, but when I came back to the game later in life I was saddened by how similar it was to real life. The teacher's goal wasn't to create inequality in her classroom, but by modeling her system after capitalism, she also adopted some of its flaws. I was also never really punished as a child. [[My parents]] weren't very disciplinary, but I was also very well-behaved. I easily adapted to the systems that they set up in the home, and it wasn't until much later in life that I realized that my eagerness to adapt to these systems was not because they were fair, but because I did not realize there was a choice. I worked very, very hard to gain [[my parents]] approval when it was really never a possibility. 