**<u>Companion Piece Write-Up (10 points)<u>**

**Instructions:** Access the assigned companion piece of the week (or find your own companion piece) and listen to, read, or watch the entire piece. Then, respond to all of the items. Your responses to each should be at least 0.5 double-spaced pages in size 12 font. To help, I grade 0.5 pages as 11 lines of content. If you have less than 11 lines, you will lose points for not writing enough.

<u>**If this is a student-chosen companion piece (skip if this is an assigned piece):**<u>

1. What is the piece you have chosen for this week's write-up?
	- [Frameline Voices - Pay it No Mind: The Life and Times of Marsha P. Johnson - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bo0nYv9QIj4)
2. What type of media is this (podcast, book, movie, etc.)?
	- Documentary

**<u>Section 1 (Summary):</u>** Summarize the piece. Be sure to explain what the piece was about in enough detail that it is clear that you watched/read/listened to the entire piece. Also be sure to highlight aspects of the piece that show its relevance to race and/or gender.

Marsha P Johnson was an activist and drag queen in New York. She was very well known because she very friendly and giving. She would ask somebody for money for a starving actress and then turn around and give that money to somebody else. She was likely one of the first of the first people to resist the police at the stone wall riots, saying, "I got my civil rights and then through my shot glass into a mirror." The people who had nothing to lose were the ones who started the riots. "When I became a drag queen, I started to live my life as a woman." Despite her problems, she was recognized as a saint within the gay community. Marsha started STAR (Street Tranvestite Activist Revolutionaries) to help homeless transgender youth. Her generosity of spirit came accross through her drag performances. She would often get picked up by the police for being a prostitute, but would get out of jail early, and had good relationships with the judges. During the aids crisis, Marsha acted as a nurse for her dying friends. She would "cover all angles" by going to the Catholic Church,the baptist church, the jewish church, etc.

**<u>Section 2 (Reading Connection):</u>** Discuss at least one **<u>reading from this week</u>** that relates to the piece. Be sure to explain which reading you are discussing, what the reading said about the topic, and how the reading is connected to the piece.

I was hoping that the documentary would focus more on Marsha's role in the Stonewall riots, but I think that it's focus Marsha as a person is very relevant. One of Marsha's most prevalent features was her energy. People could feel it through her drag performances, when she was walking down the street, even when she was in front of a judge. People were drawn to this and respected this, and it meant that she could be a very powerful leader and activist. Something that the articles didn't talk about was how being part of the community you're policing affect's your unconscious bias. I think that if you are part of a community, interacting with its citizens every day and knew people like Marsha, how it wouldn't affect your bias in a postive way. Despite Marsha's illegal occupation, she had good relationships with judges and cop's. Her work with STAR helped save hundreds of trans children's lives. Somebody like Marsha does not come along very often.

**<u>Section 3 (Personal Reflection):</u>** Discuss how the piece relates to your own life experiences. Consider how the stories or information presented is similar to, or different from, what you've experienced. If the piece focuses on an identity very different from your own, you can think about how not having that identity has led to a different life. You can also discuss memories that the piece made you think of. You should <u>not</u> give your opinion or evaluation of the piece, and you should <u>not</u> just talk about how it made you feel (e.g. "this topic makes me sad").

Sometimes I wish that I could be like Marsha. Saying hello to everybody as I walk down the street. Well known and liked in my community, and in the position to produce change, but I know that I do not have the social ability, or the charm that Marsha had. I have to look for my own ways to affect change in the world. Too often I am bound by the way that world sees me rather than free to communicate as I want. I am afraid of what people will think of me or what people will do to me. In a way, Marsha was overconfident, but she always knew that she would get through, and because of that she will go down in the history books. I think many would think that Marsha did not understand social cues, but I think that Marsha understood them better than most of us do. She could see people and love people for who they truly were, and they knew that she was seeing them past all of the layers of social standards. I think that's why people liked her so much. She was unashamedly and unapologetically who she was meant to be, and I think that is the most inspiring thing of all.