**Foundations of Computing - Global Impact Assignment**

**Objective:** Give you the opportunity to research and reflect upon the impact of computing on society.

Global Impact is the last and arguably most important of the 7 Big Ideas of [[Computer]] Science. In this assignment, you will identify and summarize **2** news articles that describe how computing has had an impact on society. One of the news articles should be mainly positive, the other mainly negative.

The news articles should not be about the technology per se (e.g., a faster microprocessor, or some cool gizmo), but the *impact* that computing has had on people, on society. For example, a news article on how Google Translate is facilitating tourism, or how [[machine learning]] is making it possible to detect cancers earlier, would be fine; but an article reviewing the latest iPhone would not.

The articles should be from reliable news sources, no more than **6** months old. A good way to start is by skimming through the front (web)pages of popular [[media]] outlets, e.g., New York Times, WSJ, NPR, Toronto Globe and Mail, Wired, The Economist, BBC, Medium, etc.

**Submission:**\
A word or text document with the following information for **each** of the two articles (one positive impact, one negative impact):

\* a url

\* a short paragraph (250 words, max) summarizing the article

• an even shorter paragraph (100 words, max) indicating your response to the article.

Site: <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/29/technology/hate-on-social-[[media]].html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Ftechnology>

Summary: On Saturday October 24^th^ there was a shooting in a Pittsburgh synagogue. Since then there has been large amounts of hate spread on many different social [[media]] sites, mainly Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. When searching "Jews" on Facebook you would find 11,696 posts with the hashtag "jewsdid911" and many references to the phrase "Heil [[Hitler]]." Over the last decade social [[media]] has become a staple of soceity and has spread to most corners of the world. As Jonathan A. Greenblat says "Social [[media]] companies have created, allowed and enabled extremists to move their message from the margins to the mainstream." Multiple terrorists who live in [[America|the US]] have been provoked or radicalized by social [[media]]. Social [[Media]] is also affecting other parts of the globe. In Brazil there was a massive attack on WhatsApp where it was flooded with misinformation about voting places and times. Analysts in Brazil think that this lead to the victory of a far-right populist Jair Bolsonaro. In Myanmar military officials have doctored Facebook messages to raise up fear and [[anxiety]] against a minority group. Fake stories on WhatsApp in India have led to dozens of Murders. Facebook and Instagram have said that they are closely looking into what has been happening on their sites and that they are taking action against such posts. Facebook has said that removing hate speech and disinformation is much harder than nudity or terrorist content. YouTube said user reported 10 million videos and YouTube automatically took down 6.8 million videos from April to June for violating community guidelines. A study from MIT found that falsehoods on Twitter were 70 percent more likely to be retweeted than accurate news. Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube have all announced that they will be using artificial intelligence to help combat this problem. Twitter is starting to reconsider their long-time position of free discourse.

Response: I think that [[AI]] is our best hope and our greatest danger against this problem. [[AI]] could catch a much vaster amount of information than a human force ever could. However, there is also great danger in having an automatic, non-human intelligence that controls the speech of humans. Many sites already have an [[AI]] like this in place but usually it is only allowed to flag content, not to remove content. One place where an [[AI]] has more power is Youtube's monetization engine. This [[AI]] is allowed to decide whether a video is monetized or not and thus decide whether the creator makes money or not. This [[AI]] has had a MASSIVE backlash in the Youtube community.

site: <https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/28/business/energy-environment/sunrun-tesla-solar-homes.html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Ftechnology>

summary: SolarCity is now the largest solar power company in the nation. They have been the leading company in consumer solar panels for a while. A new company called Sunrun is now encroaching on their [[business]]. They are set to emerge as the top residential solar installer in [[America|the US]] according to the senior analyst at Wood Mackenzie (consulting firm on renewable energy). Wood Mackenzie tracks and supplies solar data for the Solar Energy Industries Association. they say Tesla/SolarCity accounts for 9.3 percent of residential solar installations nationwide this year followed by Sunrun at 9 percent. Tesla also has a large stake in resedential battery manufacturing. They produce multiple different kinds of batteries for different purposes. Sunrun's focus has been primarily on installing sun roofs not manufacturing them. California recently implemented a policy that new homes must include solar power by 2020 and the Governor signed a bill that allocated 800 million to providing rebates for home energy-storage systems. Tesla has recently switched from selling their solar panels in Home Depot's to selling them under one roof. While this may save money for Tesla it helps there opponent Sunrun who sells their solar panels out of CostCo. The increase in costs from power providers has increased people's reliance on solar power. Tesla has doubled down on its approach of trying to innovate and enter sectors that aren't as developed. Because of this they are falling behind Sunrun in the installation of solar panels [[business]], but they're okay with that. The end

Response: I think that solar energy is the greatest hope we have for renewable energy in the near future. Installing solar panels on your roof, especially in a place like California, is a great investment so that your bills are lower, and your property value is higher. I'm not sure if solar energy is to the place where it should be mandated in every new house by 2020, but a lot can change in two years. I also think that Tesla will likely bring about the innovation that will change the worlds look on solar energy. They are doing too much with solar and batteries not to.
