Aaron [[Bopp]] -- Ecology report Bio Lab

Kendrick, S. (2019, October 1). Flight Tracker. *Missouri Conservationist*, *80*(10).

Tracking is major part of the study of ecology. It provides very important information on all different populations of animals. In this article the team used tracking to follow a 2,000-mile migration of thrushes, finding out the amazing fact that one bird travelled the 2,000 miles in only three days. New technology called Motus has allowed for smaller and smaller trackers that majorly expand this area of research. This new technology combined with cooperation across the world has allowed for unprecedented precision and volume of tracking. This technology is just ramping up in the Midwest and Missouri will be an important state in this research. The oldest form of tracking is banding, where you attack a small, unique band to identify the bird. The most common form of tracking was through radio telemetry that uses satellites and transmitters instead of the unique bands. This allowed for much more frequent and informative tracking on the bird. There has also been use of data loggers and satellite tags, but these methods are somewhat inferior to Motus. Data loggers store the data on the band, but the animal must be recaptured for the information to be gathered. Satellite tags transmitted tons of great data, but were limited by weight, and could only be used on larger birds. Both methods were limited by battery life.

The movement of species and animals has always been interesting to me. From my childhood when I was taught the tale of Noah's Ark, where the animals came two by two from all around, too now in General Biology, where I get to learn real science. Understanding how animals move is vital not only to the preservation of these species but too the preservation of our planet. These small birds feel the threat of climate change just as intimately as we do, and we would be remiss to ignore their warnings. The technological innovation described in this article, is a testament to how humanity is truly a unique species. A mammal placing a small chip made of silicon, conducting electricity, and outputting radio waves, onto another mammal so that its movements may be tracked. It is also a testament to the cooperation of the human species. Over six hundred cooperators, tagging over twenty thousand animals, on four different continents, all in the pursuit of science. As a [[Computer]] Science major, I hope that one day I will be able to contribute to a project as monumental and universal as this. The data of birds and other species in the hands of a Data Scientist is truly akin to gold.
