Summary:

There is a grey area between death and life and that is still being explored by science. There is promising precedent and research for not only prolonging life but bringing people back from the brink of death. Physical life is easy to prolong, but mental life is much harder. One of the main stories in the article is about a woman whose body was kept alive for fifty-two days in order that her unborn child may have time to grow and live. This woman was declared brain dead hours after coming to the hospital, but her body was able to be maintained with careful monitoring and support. There was another case of a child who spent over an hour with heartbeat, but thanks to constant CPR and the temperature control of his brain he was about to come back with little brain damage. There are many cases of people spending time in the grey area and coming back, and they often have similar stories or comfort, a bright light, but sometimes darker stories. Some doctors are still reluctant to call this grey area death, and instead suggest that the patients are in another state, one that allows them to come back. Other doctors are trying to research how and why some enter this grey area and how it can be recreated. There is an interesting case of monks, who even in death preserve their body through [[meditation]]. This phenomenon is not yet well researched, but very promising. There is also chance that using different chemicals such as iodine would the help the body to enter or exit this grey area. This new research also brings a moral question, on when it is okay to start collecting organs. When life can return even after brain death, can we ever be sure that they are dead before the organs are no longer worth collecting.

Personal Reaction:

This kind of research is very interesting to me. As someone who doesn't believe in an after-life ways of prolonging life are very attractive. But this does raise a major moral question of when you can stop trying. If we can keep the body alive for days if not years, should we. Some [[parents]] refuse to believe that their child is truly gone, even if they have reached the final levels of brain death. If the doctors have a way to prolong life, even with little too no chance of recovery, many [[parents]] would take it. What if to reach this grey area we inadvertently kill a [[patient]] that could have been saved? What if we lose the chance too save other's lives because we spend to much time trying to save a life that has no hope? What if we bring someone back, but their quality of life is so depleted that it would have been better to let them die? These are all moral questions that we must ask ourselves. I am also very interested in how artificial intelligence could affect this scenario. In the example of the woman with the unborn child, the doctors had to make many measurements and adjust of the machines accordingly and they were able to keep the body alive for fifty-two days. Imagine what an [[AI]] that is constantly making readings and adjustments could do. The article already talked about how CPR machines were better than humans, time will tell how much technology will affect this and the rest of medicine. Which brings up another moral issue, if an [[AI]] makes a decision that leads to [[patient]]'s death who is to blame. In many areas [[AI]] will be right at a much higher percentage than human's but for some it is easier to come to terms with a human than with a machine.

Citation:

Henig, R. M. (2016, April). The Crossing. *National Geographic*, *229*(4), 30--52.
