This [[podcast_NPR One_Can We Talk About Whiteness NPR One|conversation]] mainly focused on the communication of whiteness and white privilege to white people, who often have differing levels of awareness. College campuses are central for lots of activism about race, where activists often directly attack [[white supremacy]] and white privilege. Another method is though and indirect approach of grounding teaching in actual experience of white people, which means acknowledging why some white people feel like they don't have white privilege (due to socio-economic position or other forms of oppression). The answer being that the problems they do face aren't related to their race or other races. Race is often a difficult discussion for white people because they have either never had to acknowledge or identify with their whiteness, or they have taken political jargon and used it as a shield (either to hide their privilege or acknowledge it) to avoid investigating their personal relationship with race and privilege. One method shared of addressing this was through intellectual habits: acknowledging the dynamics of situations (who are you in the room and how did you get there).

In "[[National SEED Project - 'White Privilege Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack' and 'Some Notes for Facilitators|White Privilege: Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack]]" the author talks about how, "men’s unwillingness to grant that they are over-privileged, even though they may grant that [[women]] are disadvantaged" affects men's view of [[women]]'s oppression. This lines up with how white people can address the directly racist oppression of [[black people]] (like police violence or the war on drugs) but struggle to see their own privileges. This directly relates to the way that white people can be completely ignorant of their own race. Both sources also talk about the difference between visible oppression and embedded oppression. Most white people do not struggle to see prejudice, often equating prejudice they receive to [[racism]], but struggle to see the more embedded oppression of white privilege. This can be amplified by white people ignorance of their own race and [[racism]], which can lead to seeing simple diversity as an oppression to them. Even then, white people have often been convinced that visible [[racism]] is either overblown or non-existent.

I really relate with the talk about being ignorant of my race. Growing up in Iowa, I was surrounded by white people and mainly middle-class people. Most of the diversity in my life has come indirectly from the [[internet]]. This means that I have not had many firsthand interactions with [[racism]], but it also means I haven’t experienced ways in which my unconscious bias may still be in play. One aspect of my experience that was not really represented in these sources is of the concerted and political effort of conservatives to convince their base that they are not racist, but that [[racism]] doesn’t exist. As a child, I grew in a republican household that epitomized the “moral majority” movement of Reagan. For me, this meant using disinformation to hijack my [[empathy]] and turn me against causes and people that I should have been in complete support of. Such as opposing the ACA because I thought it was providing worse care and costing people more. I see this in play today with opposition to the BLM movement and any demonstration against [[racism]] in today’s America. This also includes lack of knowledge of the racist origins of our country like our slave owner [[founding fathers]] and how modern institutions like the [[prison-industrial complex]] is enforcing racist policies like those of the war on drugs.
