---
date modified: Sunday, September 26th 2021, 4:10:41 pm
---
**<u>Worksheet 2 (25 pts)</u>**

**Instructions:** Respond to each of the following prompts by typing in the space below the prompt. Answers should be written in essay style, not bullet points. Keep in mind that short, 1-2 sentence responses are likely not enough to receive full credit for any of these prompts.

**[[7 Ways We Know Systemic Racism Is Real|"7 Ways We Know Systemic Racism is Real" from Ben & Jerry's]]**

1. As stated in the title, this article gives seven aspects of society that show evidence of systemic [[racism]] in some way. After reading the article, pick <u>two</u> of the "ways" that you found the most compelling. For each, briefly summarize (in 2-3 sentences) the evidence presented for systemic [[racism]] and explain why you found that aspects particularly interesting. **(4 pts)**
	- **Criminal Justice**: African-[[America|Americans]] are more likely to be arrested, 20% more likely to get jail time, and get 20% longer sentences when compared to white people convicted of similar crimes. This results in a disproportionate amount of [[black people]] in [[prison]] (40% for 13% of the population) and disenfranchised (7.4% of African-American adults). I think these are some of the most shocking aspects of systemic [[racism]], as so many white people are brought believing that are our justice system is truly justice. I also think it is important because when you are looking at the causes for this discrimination, you see just how entrenched and present systemic [[racism]] still is today.
	- **Housing**: Since the 1940s loans company's and banks have devalued black owned homes, stopped [[black people]] from getting loans for new properties, and lead [[black people]] towards subprime loans. This has lead to all-time low of black ownership. This is so important because housing has historically been one of the best ways to pass on intergenerational wealth and is an appreciating asset, so the problem has only been compounding since it started. This lack of black wealth prevents them from accessing resources that could help counteract the effects of systemic [[racism]].


**[[Gray et al. (2020) - COVID-19 and the Other Pandemic.pdf|Gray et al. (2020) -- COVID-19 and the Other Pandemic]]**

2. As mentioned by the authors, the COVID-19 pandemic had a disproportionately negative impact on Black and American Indian communities, even though there is nothing about the virus that makes it more easily target people based on race. What, then, is happening?

	- Using information from the article, give <u>two</u> systemic reasons that these populations have been disproportionately affected, and explain why they would lead to higher COVID-19 infection rates. **(2 pts)**
		1. Black and indigenous people are more likely to be exposed to the virus. This is because they are over-represented as essential workers and because a lack of testing and treatment in poor communities and on reservations means that COVID-19 is more likely to spread, among other reasons
		2. Black and indigenous peoples are more likely to have pre-existing conditions. This is because of a history of mistreatment by the medical system, systemic poverty, and lack of opportunity for medical care. This leads to the higher mortality we see in these communities.
	- Discuss <u>one</u> solution given by the authors to help fix a systemic issue you highlighted in part A, and state whether you think this solution would be effective in fixing the issue. **(2 pts)**
		- I think the most effective solution offered was to declare [[racism]] a public health crisis. I think that is the most accurate way to describe issue and best shows the kind of action we need to have to solve it. [[Racism]] is not something that will go away over time or something that can be ignored, and this solution calls for ending it now and doing so publically. A death to systemic [[racism]] is just the same as a death to climate change. It is no one person's fault that it has gotten this and bad, and we all need to work together in order to change the system that caused it. Declaring it a public crisis would also make valuable resources like money and national services available as quickly as possible.


**[[Black Identity Development|Ritchey (2014) -- Black Identity Development]]**

3. Choose a character from a movie, TV show, or video game that you enjoy who may have gone through some of the stages of identity development from Cross's Nigrescence model (keep in mind that Cross believed his model should only be applied to African [[America|Americans]], not people of other racial identities). In your answer, briefly explain the character and then give examples showing their experience at two stages of the model (be sure to explain why the example is indicative of that stage). **(5 pts)**

	- While the movie *Moonlight* does not directly approach racial issues, I do believe stages of the [[Black Identity model]] can be seen. The reason that black identity development is obvious at first glance in *Moonlight* is because Nigrescence model is primarily focused of [[black people]]'s experience of [[racism]] perpetrated by white people, and *Moonlight* mainly takes place majority BIPOC and because the main character Chiron's identity journey is related to him being [[Queer|gay]] and not him being black. However, the homophobia Chiron experiences in *Moonlight* and the [[racism]] required for the Nigrescence model are linked. Despite the fact that the majority of homophobia Chiron experience is from other [[black people]], he is forced to submit to their model of masculinity because the alternative is facing the [[racism]] of white people. Two major encounters for Chiron are when he is beat and bullied for the effeminate way that he walks and acts as a child. The ultra-masculine archetype that his peers are trying to force on him is no doubt related to the way [[black people]] have been persecuted in society. The other encounter is when one of Chiron's only positive influences communicates to him the importance of a strong black identity and intrinsic masculinity in that. These encounters push Chiron to shed his effeminate nature and pursue being a stereotypical masculine black man. I believe this phase in example of the Immersion-Emersion phase, Chiron is internalizing holding onto a negative black stereotype he is engaging positively with being black in other ways. However, I don't think he moves onto the Internalization stage until many years later, when he finally comes to terms with being [[Queer|gay]] and is able to embrace [[self-love]] now that he has shed that negative stereotype of masculinity.


**[[articles_None_Urn|Cook & McCoy (2020) -- Messages in Collusion]]**

4. In class and in the lecture about White Identity Development, we discussed Helms's White Racial Identity Development Model. Using this information as well as information from the article, identify comments, statements, and/or behaviors made by the RAs in the study that display one of Helms's stages of development. Be sure to say what stage you are discussing and explain why the comment/behavior fits that stage. **(3 pts)**
	- Lots of the responses to the "[[Racism]] Continues to Exist vs. Things are Better for People of Color" message, fit into the first stage of White Identity model, contact. Despite being in positions of power as RA's they were not aware of [[racism]] around them and generally employed a color-blind strategy of leadership, even saying they didn't realize "that race really was a potent factor in American interactions today." Responses from the "Colorblind is Wrong vs. Colorblind is the Goal" and the "Segregation vs. Inclusion" messages fit well into the Disintegration step, as these two messages brought a lot of feelings of confusion and shock from the RA's because of ideals that they had been taught were non-racist or even anti-racist were being shown in a different light. This is primarily because of a misunderstanding of what anti-[[racism]] actually looks at at, a pattern of white people being too fragile to do the work that will actually combat [[racism]]. Response from the "White People need to Learn from Other White People vs. White People Can Only Learn from People of Color" show how most of the RA's did not really make it past Disintegration. When left to their all-White affinity group and away from the contact of People of Color, they did not have productive discussions. They weren't able to take personal ownership of [[racism]]. One could get that some of the RA's will fall in the Reintegration step after this study, whether that be because they choose to or do simply by not continuing the work to progress to the later stages. 

**Robbins & McGowan (2016) -- Intersectional Perspectives on [[Gender]]**

5. On pp. 77-78, the authors provide examples from research about why [[intersectionality]] is important in understanding the experiences of participants. Choose one of these examples and summarize it in your own words. Then, explain why [[intersectionality]] was a necessary component of the research (i.e., why just investigating race <u>or</u> [[gender]] wouldn't have allowed the researchers to obtain these findings). **(3 pts)**
	- In Brian's research he looked at the "The Gendered Realities of African American Cisgender Men" which was prompted by the lack of research in this area compared with white cisgender men. What he found was a close connection of African American's [[gender]] with their race and sexuality. This would not have been highlighted in previous research had not been looked at in an intersectional manner.

**McCormick-Huhn et al. (2019) -- What If Psychology Took [[Intersectionality]] Seriously?**

6. In this article, the authors consider the role of [[intersectionality]] in understanding and assess research participants specifically. In their discussion, they propose four *perspective shifts* that will allow researchers to better conceptualize participants. Choose <u>two</u> of these perspective shifts, explain what they are referring to, and state why it is important for research psychologists to consider. Write in your own words. **(6 pts)**
	- **Participant's systemic advantage or disadvantage**: Similar outcomes in different groups may have separate causes, and similar may have different determining causes in different groups. Just because a white man and black man are tall does not mean they are perceived the same way by society. You have to consider their other intersectional groups that may influence how the shared factors of tall and man are interpreted. This is important because it leads to more accurate conclusions about why certain things are happenings.
	- **Participants’ Social Group Memberships Are Dynamic**: The way that a participant's intersectional identity affects whatever is being studied is likely to change based of the context of their social group's position and their position in relation to other social groups. For example, a [[transgender]] black person's perception of race may be influenced by race's connection to [[gender]] in a way that is different from a cisgender black person. Though they are both part of the same social group, their perception of it is different based on other identities.