## <u>Worksheet 1 (25 pts)</u>

**Instructions:** Respond to each of the following prompts by typing in the space below the prompt. Answers should be written in essay style, not bullet points. Keep in mind that short, 1-2 sentence responses are likely not enough to receive full credit for any of these prompts.

### "Race Talk" from Anti-Defamation League

1. In the article, the authors state that it is crucial that we define terms when discussing issues such as race, [[gender]], and bias. In this section, they also provide a [glossary of important terms](https://www.adl.org/education/resources/glossary-terms/education-glossary-terms) (viewable at this link). Read through ADL's glossary of terms and find <u>two</u> that you were unfamiliar with. For each, state what the term is, define the term, and briefly explain when that term might come up in conversations about race or [[gender]]. (If you already knew every term in the glossary, pick two that you are less familiar with.) **(3 pts)**
	- Heterosexism - oppression of **non**-heterosexual individuals. Synonym to homophobia
		- The term is homophobia is used liberally in today's culture, but I had never heard this related term. Unfortunately, I think both terms suffer from lack of specificity. Heterosexism first made me think of being sexist against straight people, and many people still don't know the definitions of heterosexual and [[Queer|homosexual]]. Homophobia isn't a perfect term either ("I'm not scared of [[Queer|gay]] I just think they shouldn't have rights, so I'm not homophobic") but I think it gets closer to the desired meaning. 
	- [[Intersectionality]] - the *exponential* amount of oppression that people bear when they are part of multiple marginalized groups
		- I think when this term comes up people often think of the concept of the "oppression olympics" which refers to people maliciously trying to use their marginalized identities to gain moral superiority, but it is actually one of the most important tools for understanding how people who are part of multiple marginalized groups exist in today's society. 

### [[Replacement prod.pdf|Plaut et al. (2018) -- Colorblindness and Multiculturalism]]

2. This article discusses how the colorblind and multicultural approach to diversity impact discrimination and [[racism]]. Using information from the article, discuss in detail one positive and one negative impact of colorblindness. Then, do the same thing for multiculturalism. Finally, based on the entire article, state which approach the authors would suggest is better for preventing discrimination and explain why. **(5 pts)**
	- One time colorblindness can be effective is when, "it focuses on commonality without diminishing the experiences of marginalized groups." The situations that this can apply in are very limited because not diminishing the experience requires being aware of the way that marginalized groups are oppressed. This can happen if no groups are marginalized, which only happens in a completely homogenous society. Places like Scandinavia or Iowa which have largely white populations (90%+) have less blatant [[racism]] (racist acts) but I think there is a higher chance of microaggressions and unconscious bias.
	- One negative of colorblindness is, "it is associated with lower endorsement of and willingness to adopt inclusive teaching practices." We cannot ignore the fact that we have a systemically racist society and government. Those who forget history are doomed to repeat. The methods of resolving these facts will vary across political ideology, but we are doing ourselves no favors by ignoring them.
	- One negative of multiculturalism is when, "it creates an illusion of [[fairness]] and nondiscrimination." This is very important and the experience of many people of color in places that market themselves and inclusive and diverse while not fully or correctly enacting those ideals. This rightly leads people of color to find solace in groups of their own culture or in places that are owned and curated by people of their culture. Inclusivity cannot be a marketing tactic or a slogan, it needs to be a fundamental part of the ideology and creation of whatever space is claiming to be inclusive: [[business]], community, or government.
	- One positive of multiculturalism is when, "it is associated with endorsement of and willingness to adopt inclusive teaching practices." This is the only path that we have to create a more inclusive society.  We need to be teaching inclusivity to everybody in order to build a path towards a more equitable society.
	- The authors conclude that while this situation has other major factors to be studied, colorblindness makes white people more comfortable and reduces the success of marginalized groups and multiculturalism makes white people less comfortable and increases the success of the marginalized groups. Multiculturalism makes white people less comfortable because it makes them aware of their place and privilege in society, and can lead to them resenting this fact and taking their anger out on marginalized groups. Colorblindness allows white people to completely forget about race, while marginalized groups feel forgotten by society and have lower outcomes. Multiculturalism increases the success of marginalized groups, despite any increased harassment they may receive. The authors conclude that both have their place in reducing present racial discrimination, but say that further research should look and long-term effects of these viewpoints, historical and institutional influences, and the direct success of marginalized groups. 
3. Think back on your own life.
    -  In general, do you tend to take a multiculturalism or colorblind perspective when it comes to diversity? Why do you tend to take this approach? **(1 pts)**
        - I have decided to take the multicultural perspective, even though my upbringing easily allowed for a colorblind perspective. I have had very few interactions with people of color and almost no interactions with [[racism]] in my personal life, but I have very clearly seen the systemic [[racism]] that people of color face in society and have seen the negative effects that colorblindness has in people around me. 
    -  After reading this article, do you think you will continue taking the approach you have in the past? Why or why not? **(2 pts)**
        - I intend on continuing to learn about other cultures and try to bring them into my life more, and to find ways in which I can further anti-racist and multiculturalism movements. I think that the downsides of multiculturalism are mainly where white people are uncomfortable, and that is no reason to impede the success of people of color. I also think the only way to improve society is to make white people uncomfortable enough that they are forced to learn and change.

### [[National SEED Project - 'White Privilege Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack' and 'Some Notes for Facilitators|McIntosh (1989) -- White Privilege]]

4. Choose <u>*three*</u> of the items on McIntosh's (1989) list of privileges that you can relate to. State what the item is, and then describe your own experience of privilege related to that item.
	- "I can do well in a challenging situation without being called a credit to my race." 
		- When people see me do well they see my hard work and my talent, but when they see people of color do well they see an **exception** to the rule.
	- "I am never asked to speak for all the people of my racial group." 
		- I often see my family take the words of any single person of color that is reinforcing their views, but when I try to influence them, my words are immediately thrown away. They see people of color as a monolith and simply want someone to reinforce their bias.
	- "I can be sure that if I need legal or medical help, my race will not work against me." 
		- I have been able to easily access every medical resource available to me without fear that my doctors will not be knowledgeable about my experience or worse have a negative and inaccurate beliefs about the true cause of my illnesses. I have never been subject to unnecessary invasive medical procedures and my comfort of my doctor's minds.

<u>Note:</u> Although this is a list of White privilege items, many can be applied to other identities. If you don't experience White privilege, think of the list in these terms instead. **(3 pts)**

### [[Historical Foundations of Race|"Historical Foundations of Race" from Smithsonian Institute]]

5. A big chunk of this article is made up of the section "Paradox of Liberty in America's [[conscious|Consciousness]]," which starts a little less than halfway down and continues until the section "Reconstructing Race in the Nadir." Summarize in 1-2 paragraphs the entire "Paradox" section, being sure to explain what paradox the authors are referring to.  **(3 pts)**
	- This section discussed the cognitive dissonance that people in the America's had to feel at the founding of this country. While they were fighting for equal intrinsic rights they were stripping them from a large portion of society. The reasons behind this were clear, the heavy economic incentive to slavery, and this built a very a strong racial ideology in America. In order to continue slavery while fighting for freedom they stripped the humanity from their slaves in order to keep the enslaved.

### [[Winton (2020) - Scientific Racism and North American Psychology 1.pdf|Winton (2020) -- Scientific Racism and North American Psychology]]

6. In your own words and using information from the sections "Mental Testing, Educability, Eugenics, and Immigration,", and "The Partial Retreat of Scientific [[Racism]]":
    -  Name two early psychologists who promoted scientific [[racism]] through their research and beliefs, and discuss their research and/or beliefs. You should discuss two unique people, not two people who worked on the same thing. **(2 pts)**
        - Bache argued that reaction times would be significantly different by race and that "lower races" would have faster times. This feels like a close relation to r/K theory because it likens races to species and expects significant evolutionary differences between them. Bache found whites to have the slowest reactions, meaning they were the most refined species, but other scientists who looked at his data and hypothesis' found no significant difference. Other's who looked at this did not even keep straight what faster reaction times should have meant.
        - Goddard studied how intelligence and specifically the lack of it could be inherited and attributed to localities. Others used this to justify limitations on immigration based on race and to show a hereditary link to intelligence that apparentelly went through whole communities.
    -  Discuss one explanation as to why scientific [[racism]] began to fade from psychology in the 1930s and 1940s. **(2 pts)**
        - I think the most major reason for its decline was simply that there were more important things going on. The Great Deppression most likely took away some resources and people that may have worked on these studies, and WW2 showed what some of these beliefs could do if they were weilded by those in power.
7. In your own words and using information from the section "The Revival of Scientific [[Racism]] in the 1990s":
    -  Discuss the work of J. Philippe Rushton on racial differences in intelligence and other aspects of psychology. **(2 pts)**
        - Rushton espoused almost every claim of significant difference between different races from intelligence, [[socialization]], and sexual relations. As one would expect with some a wide variety of subjects, Rushton's work did not hold up to scrutiny, but that did not stop him from cotinuing until 2012.
    -  Provide <u>*two*</u> criticisms of Rushton's work on racial differences. **(2 pts)**
        - inappropriate statistical comparisons
        - serious logical errors

