---
created: 2021-07-05
note-type: 
- content-note
creator: Sivaya Subramuniyaswami
content-type:
- article
- teaching
source:  https://www.hinduismtoday.com/hindu-basics/karma-and-reincarnation/
bib:
---

###### [[Karma and Reincarnation in Hinduism]]

**Topics**::  [[Bhuddism]], [[eastern philosophy]]

**Last Edited**:: *`=this.file.mtime`*

- [[karma]] of the [[soul]] [^1]
	- the mental impressions the [[soul]] receives during life
- [[karma]] is not fate because we possess [[free-will]], it is the cullmination of all our actions across lifetimes [^2]
	- if you inflict pain eventually that pain will come back to you even if in your next lifeline
- [[Karma is based in the law of cause and effect]] [^3]
- Penance is a pre-payment for negative [[karma]] [^4]
- [[Reincarnation]] is the natural cycle of birth, death & rebirth, called [[Reincarnation|samsara]]. A [[soul]] will continue to go in and out of bodies until it has reached perfection [^5]
	- the goal of [[Hinduism]] is to escape [[Reincarnation]] through [[enlightenment]] through [[love]] of the Gods [^7]
	- [[enlightenment|Moksha]] comes when the [[soul]] has gone through all the experiences of life in the physical world [^8]
	- A noble goal in [[Hinduism]] is to experience life
- [[Suicide]] accelerates negative [[karma]] and it will take many live to reach the same point again. There is no escape from life. [^6]
- Through [[selfless]] action that is surrendered to God [[Hinduism|Hindu]]'s  avoid being affected by the reaction of their actions. [[Bhuddism is the study of happiness through detachment]]
	- God acts through [[Hinduism|Hindu]]'s and they should not take credit for their actions [^9]
- [[Hinduism]] has room for all people, beggar, saint, or pyschopath. [^10]
	- It has knowledge of inner states of [[conscious|consciousness]], [[yoga]], [[meditation]], and tolerance for all [[religion]] [^11]


--- 
##### MarkdownText

Our wise Rishis of long ago desired to know the mysteries of life and death. What happens after death? Why is there so much [[happiness]] for some and [[suffering]] for others in a lifetime? The Gods revealed to the rishis in their deepest meditations the answers to these puzzling questions. They revealed the laws of [[karma]] and [[reincarnation]] which are now two of [[Hinduism]]’s most central beliefs. They capsulize our ancient [[religion]]’s view of life, death and immortality. All Hindus know that they take many births and receive the results of their own actions in this and future lives.

[[Karma]] is the law of action and reaction which governs life. The [[soul]] carries with it the mental impressions it received during its earthly life. These characteristics are collectively called the [[karma]] of the [[soul]]. [[Karma]] literally means “deed or act”, and more broadly describes the principle of cause and effect. [[Karma]] is not fate, for God endowed his children with the power to act with [[free-will|free will]]. Esoterically, [[karma]] refers to the totality of our actions and their concomitant reactions in this and all previous lives, all of which determine our future.

Try striking the top of a table with your bare knuckles? It would hurt, wouldn’t it? The harder you strike, the more the pain. Action is followed by reaction. And, the reaction is equal to the action. In a similar way, if you cause pain to someone else, you can be certain that the same pain will come back to you. It may not return immediately, maybe not even during this lifetime. But it will return in your next life, or even in some life after that. When the reaction to your previous action of causing pain to another being does return to you, you will feel the same pain. If the pain inflicted was mental, mental pain will return. If the pain inflicted was emotional, emotional pain will return. If the pain inflicted was physical, physical pain will return. Be it mental, emotional or physical. That is why even good people suffer. They may be paying for some action that was done in a past life. If you do good, too, the good will be returned to you somehow.

Yes! [[Karma]] is the law of action and reaction which governs life. The [[soul]] reaps the effects of its own actions. If we cause others to suffer, then the experience of [[suffering]] will come to us. If we [[love]] and give, we will be loved and given to. Thus does each [[soul]] create its own destiny through thought, feeling and action. [[Karma]] is a natural law of the mind, just as gravity is a law of matter.

[[Karma]] is movement in the mind. When the mind remains motionless, there is no [[karma]]. Every action has a reaction. If you plant eggplant, you can pluck eggplant. If you sow goodness, you can reap goodness. If you sow evil, you will reap evil. You can only reap the fruit, bitter or sweet, of your own actions. Since each action has a corresponding reaction, the effects of [[karma]]-action and reaction-can be helpfully invigorating or fearfully devastating. Therefore the wise govern their lives anticipating the results of their actions, for they know that in causing an action they necessarily cause a reaction. They want to know what the reaction will be before causing the action. They know that not all reactions are immediate; that they are cumulative and in some cases rebound unexpectedly. The wise understand penance as a [[self]]-inflicted [[karma]] or prepayment of a reaction expected because of a previous action caused. Penance well performed intercedes between the action and the reaction, counterbalancing both and smoothing out the [[karma]].

WHAT IS [[REINCARNATION]]?

Life does not end at the death of the physical body. The body dies but the [[soul]] does not. It lives on in a counterpart of the physical body which is called the astral body. The astral body is made of astral matter and resides in a world not unlike this one, called the Devaloka or Second world. In other words, in order to perfect itself, to spiritually unfold and evolve, the [[soul]] lives on in another body after death, the astral body. At the right time, according to its [[karma]], it is reborn into a flesh body. Thus the astral body, with the [[soul]] within it, enters a new physical body. This same cycle is repeated many times until the [[soul]] spiritually unfolds and reaches a certain state of perfection or mature [[Evolution]]. These repeated cycles of births and deaths are known as [[Reincarnation|samsara]]. The [[soul]] passes from one physical body to another. Each time it does so, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] says, the [[soul]] has reincarnated. This is the process to which the name “[[reincarnation]]” is given.

Therefore, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] does not believe in a single life on earth, followed by eternal joy or pain. Hindus know that all souls reincarnate, take one body and then another, evolving through experience over long periods of time. To a [[Hinduism|Hindu]] death is not fearsome. Like the caterpillar’s metamorphosis into the delicate butterfly, death does not end our existence but frees us to pursue an even greater development. The [[soul]] never dies. It is immortal. Physical death is a most natural transition for the [[soul]], which survives and, guided by [[karma]], continues its long pilgrimage until it is one with its creator, God. [[Reincarnation]] is the natural cycle of birth, death & rebirth, called [[Reincarnation|samsara]]. When we die, the [[soul]] leaves the first world physical body, it lives for a while in the Devaloka, the Second World, before returning again to earth, the Bhuloka or First World.

THE MANY FACETS OF [[REINCARNATION]]

[[Reincarnation]] is many-faceted. Through the ages it has been the great consoling belief within our [[religion]], eliminating the inborn fear of death. Hindus do not fear death, nor do they look forward to it. Each one knows being is eternal. In stepping out of the physical body, [[conscious|consciousness]] continues in unbroken continuity in the astral body, its exact duplicate. In the Devaloka, mind continues, emotions continue, associations continue. There is no escape from life’s experiences. We must re-experience the [[karma]] that we have created, be it joyous, painful or mixed. [[Suicide]], for instance, only accelerates the intensity of one’s [[karma]], bringing a series of immediate lesser births and requiring several lives for the [[soul]] to return to the exact evolutionary point that existed at the moment of [[suicide]], at which time the still-existing karmic entanglements must again be faced and resolved. Thus turns the slow wheel of [[Reincarnation|samsara]].

[[enlightenment|MOKSHA]]: FREEDOM FROM REBIRTH

The next question the rishis asked the Gods: What must a person do if he wishes to reach the blissful state of union with God? Is there a state that not only confers upon us supreme, unbroken bliss, but also puts an end to pain, sorrow and [[suffering]]? Does this process of [[reincarnation]] go on forever? The Gods explained: No. Each time the [[soul]] takes on a new body, it get closer and closer to becoming perfect. To gain a better birth each time, one must live according to the natural laws that [[Hinduism]] proclaims and live out the [[karma]] in this life positively and fully while at the same time refraining from creating painful new karmas. After a number of such excellent incarnations, and after [[enlightenment|God-realization]] has been attained, the [[soul]] body becomes mature enough that it no longer needs to take a physical incarnation. Instead, it continues its [[Evolution]] on inner planes of [[conscious|consciousness]]. This release from [[Reincarnation|samsara]] is called [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. The [[soul]] is said to be freed from the bondage of birth and death.

So, we can see that the goal of a [[Hinduism|Hindu]]’s life is to halt the process of births and death. Life’s ultimate goal is not money, not clothes, not sex, not power, not food or any other of the instinctive needs. These are natural pursuits, to be sure, but our real [[purpose]] on this earth is to know, to [[love]] and to serve God and the Gods. This will eventually lead us to the rare and priceless object of life which is now called by many names” [[enlightenment]], [[liberation]], [[enlightenment|Self-Realization]], [[enlightenment|God-Realization]], [[enlightenment|nirvikalpa]] [[enlightenment|samadhi]] and finally [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. After many lifetimes of wisely controlling the creation of [[karma]] and resolving past karmas when they return, the [[soul]] is fully matured in this [[love]] and trust in God and the Gods and their goodness, and in the knowledge of these divine laws and the wise use of them. Therefore there is no longer a need for physical birth, for all lessons have been learned and all karmas fulfilled. That individual [[soul]] is then naturally liberated, freed from the cycle of birth, death & rebirth on this planet. After [[enlightenment|Moksha]], it was revealed to our rishis, our [[soul]] continues its [[Evolution]] in the inner worlds, eventually to merge into God as a drop of water merges with its source, the ocean.

[[enlightenment|MOKSHA]] IN SUMMARY

[[enlightenment|Moksha]] comes when all extraneous karmas have been resolved and God has been fully realized. This means that before [[enlightenment|Moksha]], the [[soul]] must have gone through all the experiences of life in the physical world. Once having faced in the spirit of [[love]] and understanding all of these various and varies experiences, [[enlightenment|Moksha]] comes and marks the way-station where the liberated [[soul]] is free from rebirth. When our [[soul]] has sufficiently evolved and undergone all necessary karmas in this physical universe and [[enlightenment|God-Realization]] has been attained, it will not return to the First World. All the worlds rejoice when an old [[soul]] is freed from [[Reincarnation|samsara]], the cycle of birth, death and rebirth. [[enlightenment|Moksha]] is sought for and is expected to be attained by every [[Hinduism|Hindu]]. But every [[Hinduism|Hindu]] does not expect that it will necessarily come in this present life, even though it is sought for as the ultimate goal. Hindus know this and do not delude themselves that this life is the last. Seeking and attaining profound spiritual realizations, they nevertheless know that there is much to be accomplished on the earth and that only a rare few attain [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. One can know past and future births. By getting rid of [[desire]], one can put an end to birth altogether; this great truth all Hindus know. “In all my births with me God stayed. My present birth God will terminate. To make me free of future births God gave His grace to me.”

WHAT SHOULD WE DO?

Hindus know that because of the law of [[karma]] we will have to be born again and again to reap the fruits of all actions, good, bad and mixed. How then do we stop the process? Understanding the way [[karma]] works, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] naturally seeks to live a good and virtuous life through right thought, right speech and right action. When one thinks, speaks and act correctly, one feels good about oneself, for we are then living in harmony with the whole of creation, expressing the higher qualities of our own divine [[soul]]. We perform an action without expecting or wanting anything in return. When all actions are mentally surrendered to God, one will not be affected by their reaction. By maintaining this attitude, Hindus attain purity of heart and mind.

A devout [[Hinduism|Hindu]] will always affirm: “I am not doing anything. God is [[Acting]] through me. It is all His Will.” In this way, actions and their reactions, good, bad or mixed, dissolve, and mental freedom and inner peace is maintained; and the mind occasionally merges in the ocean of God. Thus one of the goals of life is experienced, and painful karmas are not created to be re-experienced at a later time.

You cannot get rid of mental pain simply by exposing it. But if you try to be good, loving and honest, mental pain will disappear. Invoke the grace of God and restrain the mind from wandering along the path of the senses. Repeat mantras so when your past karmas come they will not overpower you. Events take place in life according to parabdha [[karma]] – the karmas brought with us into this life. But, these really do not affect the [[soul]] unless by mere habit or [[ignorance]] one identifies oneself with these events, then one becomes subject to pain and pleasure.

The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] [[religion]] is the law of God, and it has built within it the actions and interactions to dissolve painful karmas and refine joyous karmas. The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] [[religion]] advises all of its members to perform some kind of sadhana regularly; to make a pilgrimage once a year to a holy place; to see to the needs of relatives, guests, holy persons and the poor; to invoke the divine energies and direct the mind toward useful thoughts, thus circumventing the creation of new burdensome and painful karmas. In following some or all of these religious observances, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] finds [[emancipation]] from the heavy bondage of unseemly karmas.

KNOWLEDGE FOR MAN TODAY

There are many men and [[women]] in the world today who naturally understand and appreciate the laws of [[karma]] and [[reincarnation]]. They recognize that the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] view of the [[soul]]’s [[Evolution]] answers many otherwise bewildering questions, removing the fear of death while giving assurance that each [[soul]] is evolving toward the same spiritual destiny.

Yes, Hindus believe in [[reincarnation]]. They believe that they are not their physical body but live within it as a divine and perfect immortal [[soul]]. Hindus believe that the process of [[enlightenment|God-realization]] and the end of birth does not begin and end in a single life, but that this process is continuous, reaching beyond the limits that one life may impose. Of course, the law of [[karma]] assures one of a better birth if life has been lives virtuously. The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] also knows that if one does not live an ethical life, [[suffering]] will come in a future life.

The belief in [[karma]] and [[reincarnation]] brings to each [[Hinduism|Hindu]] inner peace and [[self]]-assurance. The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] knows that the maturing of the [[soul]] takes many lives, and that if the [[soul]] is immature in the present birth, then there is hope, for there will be many opportunities for learning and growing in future lives. Yes, these beliefs and the attitudes they produce eliminate [[anxiety]], giving the serene [[perception]] that everything is all right as it is. There is no sense of a time limit, of impending judgment of actions and attitudes, in a [[Hinduism|Hindu]]’s mind. And, there is also a remarkable insight into the human condition and appreciation for all men in all stages of spiritual unfoldment.

[[Hinduism]] affirms that is possible for every person on earth to reach [[enlightenment|Moksha]] – to be free from rebirth. The great beauty of [[Hinduism]] lies in professing hope and promise for all, regardless of their differences. There is no terrifying state such as “eternal damnation” in [[Hinduism|Hindu]] doctrine. No one is damned. We have the glorious example of Rishi Valmiki, who was once a plunderer and murderer of the vilest type. He changed his ways for the good. Through the power of God he became a sage and gave to the world the immortal Ramayana, one of the great epic poems of [[Hinduism]].

[[Hinduism]] is so broad. Within it there is a place for the insane. There is a place for the saint. There is a place for the beggar and for those who support beggars. There is a place for the intelligent person and plenty of room for the fool. The beauty of [[Hinduism]] is that it does not demand of every [[soul]] perfection in this life, a necessary conclusion for those who believe in a single lifetime during which human perfection or grace must be achieved or all is lost. Belief in [[reincarnation]] gives the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] an acceptance of every level of humanity. Belief in [[karma]] gives the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] caution, foresight and wisdom in handling the affairs of life.

There are one billion Hindus in the world today. [[Hinduism]] attends to the needs of each one. It is the only [[religion]] in the world today that has such breadth, such depth. [[Hinduism]] contains the Deities and the sanctified temples, the esoteric knowledge of inner states of [[conscious|consciousness]], [[yoga]] and the disciplines of [[meditation]]. It possesses a gentle compassion and a genuine tolerance and appreciation for all religions. It believes in a just world in which every [[soul]] is guided by [[karma]] to the ultimate goal of [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. It rests content in the knowledge of the Divine origin of the [[soul]], its passage through one life and another until maturity has been reached. It offers guidance to all who take refuge in it, from the non-believer to the most evolved rishi. It cherishes the largest storehouse of scripture and [[philosophy]] on the earth, and the oldest. It is endowed with a tradition of saints and sages, of realized men and [[women]], unrivaled on the earth. It is the sum of these, and more which makes us boldly declare that [[Hinduism]] is the greatest [[religion]] in all the world.

Post Views: 1,339
##### PlainText

**Insights on Two Fundamental [[Hinduism|Hindu]] Concepts From the Teachings of Sivaya Subramuniyaswami**

Our wise Rishis of long ago desired to know the mysteries of life and death. What happens after death? Why is there so much [[happiness]] for some and [[suffering]] for others in a lifetime? The Gods revealed to the rishis in their deepest meditations the answers to these puzzling questions. They revealed the laws of [[karma]] and [[reincarnation]] which are now two of [[Hinduism]]’s most central beliefs. They capsulize our ancient [[religion]]’s view of life, death and immortality. All Hindus know that they take many births and receive the results of their own actions in this and future lives.

[^1]: [[Karma]] is the law of action and reaction which governs life. The [[soul]] carries with it the mental impressions it received during its earthly life. These characteristics are collectively called the [[karma]] of the [[soul]]. [[Karma]] literally means “deed or act”, and more broadly describes the principle of cause and effect. 
[^2]: [[Karma]] is not fate, for God endowed his children with the power to act with [[free-will|free will]]. Esoterically, [[karma]] refers to the totality of our actions and their concomitant reactions in this and all previous lives, all of which determine our future.

Try striking the top of a table with your bare knuckles? It would hurt, wouldn’t it? The harder you strike, the more the pain. Action is followed by reaction. And, the reaction is equal to the action. In a similar way, if you cause pain to someone else, you can be certain that the same pain will come back to you. It may not return immediately, maybe not even during this lifetime. But it will return in your next life, or even in some life after that. When the reaction to your previous action of causing pain to another being does return to you, you will feel the same pain. If the pain inflicted was mental, mental pain will return. If the pain inflicted was emotional, emotional pain will return. If the pain inflicted was physical, physical pain will return. Be it mental, emotional or physical. That is why even good people suffer. They may be paying for some action that was done in a past life. If you do good, too, the good will be returned to you somehow.

[^3]: Yes! [[Karma]] is the law of action and reaction which governs life. The [[soul]] reaps the effects of its own actions. If we cause others to suffer, then the experience of [[suffering]] will come to us. If we [[love]] and give, we will be loved and given to. Thus does each [[soul]] create its own destiny through thought, feeling and action. [[Karma]] is a natural law of the mind, just as gravity is a law of matter.

[[Karma]] is movement in the mind. When the mind remains motionless, there is no [[karma]]. Every action has a reaction. If you plant eggplant, you can pluck eggplant. If you sow goodness, you can reap goodness. If you sow evil, you will reap evil. You can only reap the fruit, bitter or sweet, of your own actions. Since each action has a corresponding reaction, the effects of [[karma]]-action and reaction-can be helpfully invigorating or fearfully devastating. Therefore the wise govern their lives anticipating the results of their actions, for they know that in causing an action they necessarily cause a reaction. They want to know what the reaction will be before causing the action. They know that not all reactions are immediate; that they are cumulative and in some cases rebound unexpectedly. 

[^4]: The wise understand penance as a [[self]]-inflicted [[karma]] or prepayment of a reaction expected because of a previous action caused. Penance well performed intercedes between the action and the reaction, counterbalancing both and smoothing out the [[karma]].

WHAT IS [[REINCARNATION]]?

Life does not end at the death of the physical body. The body dies but the [[soul]] does not. It lives on in a counterpart of the physical body which is called the astral body. The astral body is made of astral matter and resides in a world not unlike this one, called the Devaloka or Second world. In other words, in order to perfect itself, to spiritually unfold and evolve, the [[soul]] lives on in another body after death, the astral body. At the right time, according to its [[karma]], it is reborn into a flesh body. Thus the astral body, with the [[soul]] within it, enters a new physical body. This same cycle is repeated many times until the [[soul]] spiritually unfolds and reaches a certain state of perfection or mature [[Evolution]]. These repeated cycles of births and deaths are known as [[Reincarnation|samsara]]. The [[soul]] passes from one physical body to another. Each time it does so, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] says, the [[soul]] has reincarnated. This is the process to which the name “[[reincarnation]]” is given.

[^5]: Therefore, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] does not believe in a single life on earth, followed by eternal joy or pain. Hindus know that all souls reincarnate, take one body and then another, evolving through experience over long periods of time. To a [[Hinduism|Hindu]] death is not fearsome. Like the caterpillar’s metamorphosis into the delicate butterfly, death does not end our existence but frees us to pursue an even greater development. The [[soul]] never dies. It is immortal. Physical death is a most natural transition for the [[soul]], which survives and, guided by [[karma]], continues its long pilgrimage until it is one with its creator, God. [[Reincarnation]] is the natural cycle of birth, death & rebirth, called [[Reincarnation|samsara]]. When we die, the [[soul]] leaves the first world physical body, it lives for a while in the Devaloka, the Second World, before returning again to earth, the Bhuloka or First World.

THE MANY FACETS OF [[REINCARNATION]]

[[Reincarnation]] is many-faceted. Through the ages it has been the great consoling belief within our [[religion]], eliminating the inborn fear of death. Hindus do not fear death, nor do they look forward to it. Each one knows being is eternal. In stepping out of the physical body, [[conscious|consciousness]] continues in unbroken continuity in the astral body, its exact duplicate. In the Devaloka, mind continues, emotions continue, associations continue. There is no escape from life’s experiences. We must re-experience the [[karma]] that we have created, be it joyous, painful or mixed. 

[^6]: [[Suicide]], for instance, only accelerates the intensity of one’s [[karma]], bringing a series of immediate lesser births and requiring several lives for the [[soul]] to return to the exact evolutionary point that existed at the moment of [[suicide]], at which time the still-existing karmic entanglements must again be faced and resolved. Thus turns the slow wheel of [[Reincarnation|samsara]].

[[enlightenment|MOKSHA]]: FREEDOM FROM REBIRTH

The next question the rishis asked the Gods: What must a person do if he wishes to reach the blissful state of union with God? Is there a state that not only confers upon us supreme, unbroken bliss, but also puts an end to pain, sorrow and [[suffering]]? Does this process of [[reincarnation]] go on forever? The Gods explained: No. Each time the [[soul]] takes on a new body, it get closer and closer to becoming perfect. To gain a better birth each time, one must live according to the natural laws that [[Hinduism]] proclaims and live out the [[karma]] in this life positively and fully while at the same time refraining from creating painful new karmas. After a number of such excellent incarnations, and after [[enlightenment|God-realization]] has been attained, the [[soul]] body becomes mature enough that it no longer needs to take a physical incarnation. Instead, it continues its [[Evolution]] on inner planes of [[conscious|consciousness]]. This release from [[Reincarnation|samsara]] is called [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. The [[soul]] is said to be freed from the bondage of birth and death.

[^7]: So, we can see that the goal of a [[Hinduism|Hindu]]’s life is to halt the process of births and death. Life’s ultimate goal is not money, not clothes, not sex, not power, not food or any other of the instinctive needs. These are natural pursuits, to be sure, but our real [[purpose]] on this earth is to know, to [[love]] and to serve God and the Gods. 

This will eventually lead us to the rare and priceless object of life which is now called by many names” [[enlightenment]], [[liberation]], [[enlightenment|Self-Realization]], [[enlightenment|God-Realization]], [[enlightenment|nirvikalpa]] [[enlightenment|samadhi]] and finally [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. After many lifetimes of wisely controlling the creation of [[karma]] and resolving past karmas when they return, the [[soul]] is fully matured in this [[love]] and trust in God and the Gods and their goodness, and in the knowledge of these divine laws and the wise use of them. Therefore there is no longer a need for physical birth, for all lessons have been learned and all karmas fulfilled. That individual [[soul]] is then naturally liberated, freed from the cycle of birth, death & rebirth on this planet. After [[enlightenment|Moksha]], it was revealed to our rishis, our [[soul]] continues its [[Evolution]] in the inner worlds, eventually to merge into God as a drop of water merges with its source, the ocean.

[[enlightenment|MOKSHA]] IN SUMMARY

[^8]: [[enlightenment|Moksha]] comes when all extraneous karmas have been resolved and God has been fully realized. This means that before [[enlightenment|Moksha]], the [[soul]] must have gone through all the experiences of life in the physical world. Once having faced in the spirit of [[love]] and understanding all of these various and varies experiences, [[enlightenment|Moksha]] comes and marks the way-station where the liberated [[soul]] is free from rebirth.

When our [[soul]] has sufficiently evolved and undergone all necessary karmas in this physical universe and [[enlightenment|God-Realization]] has been attained, it will not return to the First World. All the worlds rejoice when an old [[soul]] is freed from [[Reincarnation|samsara]], the cycle of birth, death and rebirth. [[enlightenment|Moksha]] is sought for and is expected to be attained by every [[Hinduism|Hindu]]. But every [[Hinduism|Hindu]] does not expect that it will necessarily come in this present life, even though it is sought for as the ultimate goal. Hindus know this and do not delude themselves that this life is the last. Seeking and attaining profound spiritual realizations, they nevertheless know that there is much to be accomplished on the earth and that only a rare few attain [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. One can know past and future births. By getting rid of [[desire]], one can put an end to birth altogether; this great truth all Hindus know. “In all my births with me God stayed. My present birth God will terminate. To make me free of future births God gave His grace to me.”

WHAT SHOULD WE DO?

Hindus know that because of the law of [[karma]] we will have to be born again and again to reap the fruits of all actions, good, bad and mixed. How then do we stop the process? Understanding the way [[karma]] works, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] naturally seeks to live a good and virtuous life through right thought, right speech and right action. When one thinks, speaks and act correctly, one feels good about oneself, for we are then living in harmony with the whole of creation, expressing the higher qualities of our own divine [[soul]]. We perform an action without expecting or wanting anything in return. When all actions are mentally surrendered to God, one will not be affected by their reaction. By maintaining this attitude, Hindus attain purity of heart and mind.

[^9]: A devout [[Hinduism|Hindu]] will always affirm: “I am not doing anything. God is [[Acting]] through me. It is all His Will.” In this way, actions and their reactions, good, bad or mixed, dissolve, and mental freedom and inner peace is maintained; and the mind occasionally merges in the ocean of God. Thus one of the goals of life is experienced, and painful karmas are not created to be re-experienced at a later time.

You cannot get rid of mental pain simply by exposing it. But if you try to be good, loving and honest, mental pain will disappear. Invoke the grace of God and restrain the mind from wandering along the path of the senses. Repeat mantras so when your past karmas come they will not overpower you. Events take place in life according to parabdha [[karma]] – the karmas brought with us into this life. But, these really do not affect the [[soul]] unless by mere habit or [[ignorance]] one identifies oneself with these events, then one becomes subject to pain and pleasure.

The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] [[religion]] is the law of God, and it has built within it the actions and interactions to dissolve painful karmas and refine joyous karmas. The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] [[religion]] advises all of its members to perform some kind of sadhana regularly; to make a pilgrimage once a year to a holy place; to see to the needs of relatives, guests, holy persons and the poor; to invoke the divine energies and direct the mind toward useful thoughts, thus circumventing the creation of new burdensome and painful karmas. In following some or all of these religious observances, the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] finds [[emancipation]] from the heavy bondage of unseemly karmas.

KNOWLEDGE FOR MAN TODAY

There are many men and [[women]] in the world today who naturally understand and appreciate the laws of [[karma]] and [[reincarnation]]. They recognize that the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] view of the [[soul]]’s [[Evolution]] answers many otherwise bewildering questions, removing the fear of death while giving assurance that each [[soul]] is evolving toward the same spiritual destiny.

Yes, Hindus believe in [[reincarnation]]. They believe that they are not their physical body but live within it as a divine and perfect immortal [[soul]]. Hindus believe that the process of [[enlightenment|God-realization]] and the end of birth does not begin and end in a single life, but that this process is continuous, reaching beyond the limits that one life may impose. Of course, the law of [[karma]] assures one of a better birth if life has been lives virtuously. The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] also knows that if one does not live an ethical life, [[suffering]] will come in a future life.

The belief in [[karma]] and [[reincarnation]] brings to each [[Hinduism|Hindu]] inner peace and [[self]]-assurance. The [[Hinduism|Hindu]] knows that the maturing of the [[soul]] takes many lives, and that if the [[soul]] is immature in the present birth, then there is hope, for there will be many opportunities for learning and growing in future lives. Yes, these beliefs and the attitudes they produce eliminate [[anxiety]], giving the serene [[perception]] that everything is all right as it is. There is no sense of a time limit, of impending judgment of actions and attitudes, in a [[Hinduism|Hindu]]’s mind. And, there is also a remarkable insight into the human condition and appreciation for all men in all stages of spiritual unfoldment.

[[Hinduism]] affirms that is possible for every person on earth to reach [[enlightenment|Moksha]] – to be free from rebirth. The great beauty of [[Hinduism]] lies in professing hope and promise for all, regardless of their differences. There is no terrifying state such as “eternal damnation” in [[Hinduism|Hindu]] doctrine. No one is damned. We have the glorious example of Rishi Valmiki, who was once a plunderer and murderer of the vilest type. He changed his ways for the good. Through the power of God he became a sage and gave to the world the immortal Ramayana, one of the great epic poems of [[Hinduism]].

[^10]: [[Hinduism]] is so broad. Within it there is a place for the insane. There is a place for the saint. There is a place for the beggar and for those who support beggars. There is a place for the intelligent person and plenty of room for the fool. The beauty of [[Hinduism]] is that it does not demand of every [[soul]] perfection in this life, a necessary conclusion for those who believe in a single lifetime during which human perfection or grace must be achieved or all is lost. Belief in [[reincarnation]] gives the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] an acceptance of every level of humanity. Belief in [[karma]] gives the [[Hinduism|Hindu]] caution, foresight and wisdom in handling the affairs of life.

[^11]: There are one billion Hindus in the world today. [[Hinduism]] attends to the needs of each one. It is the only [[religion]] in the world today that has such breadth, such depth. [[Hinduism]] contains the Deities and the sanctified temples, the esoteric knowledge of inner states of [[conscious|consciousness]], [[yoga]] and the disciplines of [[meditation]]. It possesses a gentle compassion and a genuine tolerance and appreciation for all religions. It believes in a just world in which every [[soul]] is guided by [[karma]] to the ultimate goal of [[enlightenment|Moksha]]. It rests content in the knowledge of the Divine origin of the [[soul]], its passage through one life and another until maturity has been reached. It offers guidance to all who take refuge in it, from the non-believer to the most evolved rishi. It cherishes the largest storehouse of scripture and [[philosophy]] on the earth, and the oldest. It is endowed with a tradition of saints and sages, of realized men and [[women]], unrivaled on the earth. It is the sum of these, and more which makes us boldly declare that [[Hinduism]] is the greatest [[religion]] in all the world.



