To Mom and Dad,
When I was young, one day I said to Mom, "I want to be a girl!" This statement was one of my earliest conceptualizations of myself and how I wanted to interact with the world. This wasn't an illogical or selfish statement, it was one of self-love, an affirmation of what I was feeling inside. I was a smart kid, I was already reading people's facial expressions and reacting to them, so when I saw the look of disgust and disdain on Mom's face, I was startled. How could this thing that feels so true and wonderful about myself, be so shocking and appalling to the mother I love more than anything else in the world. I don't know what happened after this, or if there was any conversation, I don't think Mom will remember this at all, but her reaction is seared into my memory. 

There were two things that this experience taught me, that my perception of myself was wrong, and that my self-love was not important to my parents. 

Over the next few years, I would often have gender related anxiety. Silly things like being terrified to wear any shorts that didn't cover my knees, or many other things that came across as modesty or anxiety like clothes shopping. But for the most part, I separated myself from gender as much as I could. I focused on things that I was allowed to love about myself, like being weird or smart or silly. The rest of the time I focused on doing what I thought was what you wanted. I vowed to avoid all of the "failures" of my bother and sister, to become the perfect child. Of course, I found this impossible, because as my skill rose so did the standards. I honestly don't remember much from my childhood, but when look back see scared and confused kid who was trying their hardest to do the things that made their parents happy, and to ignore all of the sadness they had inside. These feelings really came to a head in high school and college as I struggled to understand why I was always so scared and never felt myself in social situations. As I grew older, I started to lose hope that I would ever understand how to be happy.

