Aaron [[Bopp]]

[[Acting]] is one of the world's oldest professions. It is part of human nature to perform, but more importantly it is part of human nature to seek entertainment, which makes performing profitable. For a long time, [[Acting]] was simply that, [[Acting]]. There was an actor and a character, and they were wholly separate. The actor and the audience knew. It is impossible to escape this fact in [[Acting]], you are not who you are trying to be. In many types of performance this relationship is desired. The audience is looking for a show, and the actors will give it to them. They do not need to have any knowledge of the character beyond what they are showing to the audience, and the audience doesn't need to look any deeper. However, throughout history, and increasingly today, both the audience and the actor have wanted more. They want to see the character in the actor, not just see the actor playing a character. The actors have wanted to understand the character beyond their lines and circumstances. Many systems have been designed over the years, but the foremost is the system of Stanislavski, an actor and teacher from the 19^th^ century.

Stanislavski would come to be known as one of the most influential teachers of theater, but when he started, he was just trying to help others be the best actors they could be. He searched for a system. A system that could define the creative process that he was seeing all around him. For him, a system did not reduce the creative integrity of the work, but rather enhanced it. He thought that an actor's attempt to act was completely vain if they relied purely on their own intuition. This did not disregard an individual's creative nature, it was simply trying to categorize it. Stanislavski believed, "there is no such thing as 'my' system or 'your' system. There is one system: organic creative nature. There is no other system." (Hobgood, 151) His documentation of the 'organic creative nature' was meant to help actors, young and old, seek completely sincere expression.

Hobgood believes that the best way to translate Stanislavski's Russian word for his system of performance is, "the art of experiencing in performance." (Hobgood, 149) Other writers in American theater would translate Stanislavski's system as, "the art of living the part." (Hobgood, 149) The use of the word 'experience' is very important to Hobgood as you are not living as the character, you are experiencing the character. Stanislavski's system differs from more traditional presentational performance, where the actor is fully separate from the part, and method, where the actor completely disappears (lives) the part. In this system, the actor is still the actor, but when they perform, they experience the life of the character. It should look like they completely disappear into the character, but they are just relegated to the background, and are using their own being to fuel the performance of the character. The actor must fully embody the character in performance, but that does not require any deconstruction of the actor's own personality.

Stanislavski's system requires a lot of the actor. In order to embody the character, the actor must have detailed knowledge of the given circumstances, or the details that the play gives to inform the characters actions. In the system, those circumstances are used to create tasks, which inform the motivation of the character. Every decision the character makes forms together to make an over-all task. The actor uses these tasks to motivate their action and emotion. Throughout the rehearsal process the actor refines their portrayal of the character in the shadow of these tasks and how their tasks interact with the tasks of other actors. Once the actor gets to the performance, they can fall almost completely into the character, and give a very real performance. Overall, this system puts study on the forefront, and the physical aspects are of secondary importance. This is contrasted by the system of a contemporary and student of Stanislavski, Chekhov.

The goal of Chekhov's system is the same as Stanislavski's, to provide the realest performance possible by embodying the character. Where they differ is on what aspect of [[Acting]] the emphasize. In Stanislavski's system the actor will spend hours studying how to play the character, but Chekhov purposefully pushes against that. He frees the actor from pointed analysis of the character, and instead encourages development through action. In his time Chekhov was criticized for basing his teachings on holistic methods, but this attitude has become more mainstream as people study [[yoga]] and [[meditation]]. The teaching of Chekhov's method comes primarily through improvisation. The actors are let loose to play different scenarios as their characters. Through repetition the character will be formed in the actor's mind. The warmups that practitioners of this method employ focus on connecting the actor with their body, so that the improvisation can flow smoothly out of them. The body is a necessary and leading part of the development of the character in Chekhov's method, whereas in Stanislavski's it was merely a conduit for the analysis of the brain to transmit through. (Citron)

The teachings of both Stanislavski and Chekhov would be very influential throughout the 20^th^ century and onto today. The work of their students and admirers has slowly morphed over time into was is called Method [[Acting]]. Method [[Acting]] has similarities and differences to both styles, but it shares the common theme of wanting to provide the realest performance possible through embodiment of the character. Method [[Acting]] has garnered quite a bit of negative attention for its psychological effects on the actors, and their cultish following of it. Throughout the early 20^th^ century, students and followers of 'the Method' started to surface in New York City and Hollywood. These actors prioritized the character above all else, including their [[mental health]]. The studios that practiced method [[Acting]] were criticized for how many of their actors were seeking psychological help. One of the teachers of 'the Method' was Strasberg. He was often criticized for his teaching style, some calling it inhumane. Strasberg would create what were called 'Private moments' where actors would give a performance of a normally private moment, often in the nude. (Gray, 49) These performances had no [[purpose]] other than showing that the actor was so in the moment that they were oblivious of the outside world. This commitment is the kind of method [[Acting]] that has caused so much vitriol, but it has nonetheless spread throughout culture and is often praised for giving such memorable performances.

One such performance is that of Jim Carrey in *Man on the Moon.* This movie was a biopic of an already eccentric actor, Andy Kaufman. For this movie, Carrey gave a completely method performance, much to the chagrin of his co-workers. This process was documented and released as a documentary many years later. This brought about many interesting moments, such as when Carrey offered to fire Kaufman and let Carrey do impressions instead. The director refused however, as he thought that the method [[Acting]] would give a better performance. At one-point Carrey spent an hour speaking with Kaufman's real daughter, both treating each other as real family. After the process Carrey said that he truly lost himself in Kaufman, and that he had trouble returning to life as himself after playing someone else for so long. While Carrey's method was polarizing, the movie was a success and it was not until years later that it was revealed to the public how harrowing the process had been for some of the other actors. (Rosenburg)

The [[Evolution]] of method [[Acting]] from Stanislavski to Chekhov to today is an interesting one. Some actors may find different levels of success working in different levels, but any actor could improve from studying them. The great thing about [[Acting]] today is that you have the hindsight of two-hundred years of [[Acting]] documented to learn from.

Works Cited:

Citron, Atay. "The Chekhov Technique Today." *The Drama Review: TDR*, vol. 27, no. 3, 1983, pp. 91--96. *JSTOR*, www.jstor.org/stable/1145462. Accessed 28 Feb. 2020.

KONIJN, ELLY A., et al. *Acting Emotions*. Amsterdam University Press, 2000. *JSTOR*, [www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt46n1zd. Accessed 28 Feb. 2020](http://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt46n1zd.%20Accessed%2028%20Feb.%202020).

Hobgood, Burnet M. "Central Conceptions in Stanislavski\'s System." *Educational Theatre [[Journal]]*, vol. 25, no. 2, 1973, pp. 147--159. *JSTOR*, www.jstor.org/stable/3205864. Accessed 28 Feb. 2020.

Gray, Paul. "Stanislavski and [[America]]: A Critical Chronology." *The Tulane Drama Review*, vol. 9, no. 2, 1964, pp. 21--60. *JSTOR*, www.jstor.org/stable/1125101. Accessed 17 Apr. 2020.

Rosenberg, Tal. "The Madness to Jim Carrey\'s Method." *Chicago Reader*, Chicago Reader, 15 Apr. 2020, [www.chicagoreader.com/chicago/jim-carrey-andy-kaufman-great-beyond-man-moon/Content?oid=38569841](http://www.chicagoreader.com/chicago/jim-carrey-andy-kaufman-great-beyond-man-moon/Content?oid=38569841).
