Prompt 1: Explore Saudi culture as it relates to [[women]].

Aaron [[Bopp]] - Ethnographic Film Study - 2/28/2019

[[Women]]'s rights has been a hot topic in Saudi Arabia for over a decade, and in that time it has made many strides towards equality. The [[women]] of Saudi Arabia are still oppressed by any western standard, but compared to where they were ten years ago, this is freedom. While the oppression of [[women]] that we see in movies like *Kingdom* (2007) may shock western audiences, the future looks bright for the [[women]] of Saudi Arabia.

Many people believe that the oppression of [[women]] in Saudi Arabia is completely a result of its adherence to the Shari'a (Islamic Law) but as Murdoch University's 2004 study revealed, the main oppressions against [[women]] come from [[government]] edicts, and in some places are even in conflict with Shari'a law (Mtango, 2004). For instance, the most prominent symbol of oppression for Saudi [[women]] is the *hijab,* which refers to the full body covering that most Muslim [[women]] wear when they leave their home. While the wearing of this kind of covering is required and even enforced by the *muttawas* (religious police) in Saudi Arabia, it is not specifically described in the Quran or in other holy books. These books merely require that Muslim men and [[women]] be modest (Mtango, 2004). In *Kingdom,* we see one of the main protagonists, a [[women]], is forced to cover herself in a blanket while on television. The person that forces her to do this is an American who understands Saudi culture. He knows the dress that would be normal in [[America]], would be disrespectful in Saudi Arabia. The implementation and enforcement of this dress code is a result of tradition and corruption in the male-controlled [[government]] of Saudi Arabia. This pattern follows for much of the oppression of [[women]] in Saudi Arabia, where the religious books of Islam are used to oppress [[women]] by the [[government]]. Fortunately, Saudi Arabia is starting to change, whether the men like it or not.

The fight for change started out slow in Saudi Arabia. Perhaps one of the biggest helps for [[women]]'s rights in Saudi Arabia was the rise to power of their latest king, Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. He came to power in 2015 and it is since then that we have seen the biggest changes in Saudi Arabia. However, as early as 2013 twenty [[women]] were appointed to the Consultative Assembly (an assembly that can suggest laws to the king). While this move did not give the [[women]] any real power, it was an important signal for the rest of Saudi Arabia that [[women]] are worth listening too. Then, in 2015, Saudi [[women]] were able to run for office for the first time. While they could only run for local council seats, they did have seven-teen victories. (Zilman, 2016) The fight for Saudi [[women]] in [[business]] has been going on even longer. Since the [[government]] started lifting restrictions on how [[women]] and men can work together in 2011, [[women]] have started working, and even replaced men in places like supermarkets. Right now [[women]] represent 22% of the workforce and bin Salman hopes to raise that to 30% by 2030 (Baker, 2018). However, there is still a major barrier to [[women]] in the workplace, driving.

Even as Saudi [[women]] gained the ability to vote, to work, and to hold political positions, they still did not have permission to drive. Finally, in late 2018 the ban was finally lifted, but it was anti-climactic. When the press flew in to see the first Saudi [[women]] driving, they instead found instructors posing as students. Even as Saudi [[women]] start to take to the roads, many are reluctant and scared (Baker, 2018). This restriction on the roads has been a boon for the working Saudi woman for many years. During the ban, [[women]] would often struggle to make it to the interview and then to their shifts because of unreliable rides and public transportation. With the ban lifted, the amount of [[women]] applying for and working jobs will increase dramatically, and financial analysts expect a large boost to the [[economy]] as well (Baker, 2018).

[[Women]]'s rights in Saudi Arabia have made massive bounds in the past ten years, and could make even bigger ones in the next few years, but the [[war]]-torn landscape shown in *Kingdom*, may still exist. As the country becomes more liberal, the fundamentalists and traditionalists will become only more outraged. Only time will tell what affect these events will have on the country at large. For now, the [[women]] of Saudi Arabia have hope for the future.

Works Cited

Amos, D. (2015, December 6). [[Women]] Gain First-Time Rights In Saudi Arabia Elections. *Weekend Edition Sunday (NPR)*. Retrieved February 27, 2019.

Baker, A. (2018, September 7). Keys to the Kingdom: What the future looks like for Saudi Arabia\'s [[women]]. *Time International*, *192*(2). Retrieved February 27, 2019.

Mtango, S. (2004). A State of Oppression? Womens Rights in Saudi Arabia. *Asia- Pacific [[Journal]] on Human Rights and the Law,* *5*(1), 49-67. doi:10.1163/1571815043075166

Zillman, C. (2016, June 16). Female CEO of Saudi Arabia Company Says Women\'s Right to Drive Could Be \'Coming Very Soon\'. Retrieved February 27, 2019, from http://fortune.com/2016/06/13/saudi-arabia-[[women]]-right-drive-female-ceo/
